## Evaluation

Artifacts associated to the evaluation process.

### OOPS! Validation Report

The `oops` folder contains the result of the scanning of the modules of the Urban IoT ontologies using the **OOPS! (OntOlogy Pitfall Scanner!)** REST web service ([link](http://oops.linkeddata.es/webservice.html)).

For each module the following files are available:

- `oops.md` and `oops.html` Summary of the OOPS! report as Markdown and HTML files generated using [oops-report](https://github.com/OnToology/oops-report)
- `oops.xml` Complete report in RDF/XML generated by the OOPS! REST web service

The scanning of the final version of the modules doesn't report _critical_ pitfalls. _Important_ pitfalls related to two specific design choices. The first one is related to the choice of not importing in the modules the re-used vocabularies, but to simply re-use the referenced entities via their IRIs. This choice causes the detection of the following pitfalls related to external classes and properties: unconnected ontology elements, missing annotations, untyped class and properties, missing domain and range. 
The second design choice is related to the decision of not specifying disjoint axioms between sub-classes. In general, we decided to limit the use of logical axioms, preferring to specify intended usage of classes and properties through annotation and documentation, and leaving potential validation to the definition of shapes (e.g., using SHACL); indeed, we do not expect the intended users to exploit reasoning in their systems and analysis.

We also decided not to address the remaining _minor_ pitfalls, e.g., inverse relations that we considered useless, and particular naming conventions in IRIs (e.g., _uiote:eMobilityServiceProvider_ class).

### Completeness

The `completeness` folder contains the report of the performed validation. The document contains, for each Competency Question identified in the requirements, the list of modelled classes, properties and individuals needed to express them as SPARQL queries.